cl-cffi-gtk3 is a Lisp binding to GTK 3  which is a library for creating
graphical user interfaces. cl-cffi-gtk3 is licensed using the MIT license.

The cl-cffi-gtk3 library was part of the cl-cffi-gtk library and was
separated out to be used independently. The former cl-cffi-gtk library is
replaced with the cl-cffi-gtk3 for GTK 3 and the cl-cffi-gtk4 library for GTK 4.

This library depends on the following libraries:

  cl-cffi-glib
  cl-cffi-gdk-pixbuf
  cl-cffi-pango
  cl-cffi-cairo

The libraries are available from https://github.com/crategus website.
The cl-cffi-gtk3 API documentation is available from the
crategus.com/books/cl-cffi-gtk3 website.

For the reworked cl-cffi-gtk3 library the naming of all symbols has been changed
so that the package designator can be used consistently. It is not recommended
to include this package or any of the other required packages with :USE. Many
symbols are used in several packages. For example, we have CAIRO:MATRIX and
PANGO:MATRIX or GTK:WINDOW and GDK:WINDOW. With a few exceptions, that may be
removed in the future, the cl-cffi libraries do not include packages with :USE.

The cl-cffi-gtk3 library is developped with SBCL on UBUNTU. Furthermore, the
library runs successfully under WINDOWS.


Examples and GTK demo
---------------------

The cl-cffi-gtk3 library comes with examples and a GTK demo. Use

  (asdf:load-system :gtk3-example)

or

  (asdf:load-system :gtk3-demo)

to load the examples or the GTK demo. Start the GTK demo with

  (gtk3-demo:gtk3-demo)

on the Lisp prompt. The symbols for the examples are exported from the GTK3-EXAMPLE package. Use e.g.

  (gtk3-example:example-css-accordion)

to start the CSS Accordion example from the Lisp prompt.

The examples and the GTK demo needs the resource file

  example/resource/gtk3-example.gresource

Use the GLIB-COMPILE-RESOURCES program to generate the resouce file from the
GTK3-EXAMPLE.XML file, which is located in EXAMPLE/RESOURCE directory.


TESTSUITE for the cl-cffi-gtk3 library
--------------------------------------

The cl-cffi-gtk3 library comes with a testsuite. The testsuite can be performed with

  (asdf:test-system :cl-cffi-gtk3)

or loaded with

  (asdf:load-system :cl-cffi-gtk3/test)

Unfortunatley, a lot of tests depends on the used hardware or local enviroment
and therefore will fail for this reason. This will be fixed in the future.

2023-3-15
